# Part 2.  Write a Research Proposal

This is the second part of the final assignment. Your research proposal should meet a minimum word count of 4500 words, not including references or titles.  Be certain to cite all sources and include a bibliography of references. Include figures, captions and formulas as needed. Please e-mail your signed proposal as a single pdf document to me at tjfrazier@wm.edu prior to the deadline of 5:00 PM on May 8th.

## Summary

In this final assignment, you will need to produce three documents. First, you will need to write a problem statement that introduces your human development topic, substantivelyquantifies thesignificance of harms associated with that topic and then describesand analyzesthat problemas a development process.Second, you will need to review and critically analyze the body ofliterature related to your selected geospatial data science methods. This revised and extendedreview should provethat you have identified a gap in the literature that is worthy of furtherresearch. You will then need to use this research gap as the basis to formally articulate a specificcentral research question.Finally, you will need to write a research proposal that you plan toimplement in order to answer your research question.

### Step 1. Write a Problem Statement\(1500 words minimum\)

Introduce your topic, quantify the significance of harms and describe the problem as a process.

1. Introduce your human development topic. Identify the sustainable development goal orgoals associated with your topic. Identify the low and middle income countries where yourselected topic is most prevalent. [https://datahelpdesk.worldbank.org/knowledgebase/articles/906519 ](https://datahelpdesk.worldbank.org/knowledgebase/articles/906519%20)
2. Identify and quantify significant harms. Sufficiency will be assessed in terms of the substantivenature of your problem statement. You are welcome to extend your previous work. Com-prehensively demonstrate why your development topic is important, and why the harmsassociated with your topic are significant both globally as well as within the context of yourselected low or middle income countries. Use tables, charts and maps to further describeand illustrate harms associated with your selected human development topic. Be sure toproperly cite all sources.
3. Describe and analyze the complex nature of the human development process you are in-vestigating, including the system, the environment, agents and networks. Describe andanalyze scope, scale and hierarchy of development processes and sub-processes. Describeand analyze the role of institutions, social services, infrastructures, land use, the built en-vironment and/or the urban/suburban/rural context and how any of these elements factorinto development processes. Describe and analyze measures of accessibility to all relatedinfrastructures and social services as well as the level-of-service provided by those facilities.Describe and analyze factors that contribute to quantified harms. Describe and analyzeprocess oriented causes-effect relationships. Be substantive in your process description.Use illustrations as needed; properly cite all of your figures.

### Step 2. Write a Literature Review\(1500 words minimum\)

Review and critically analyze the body of literature associated with your selected geospatial datascience methods.

1. Identify the geospatial data science methods you have selected. Review the literatureassociated with your methods, including both sources you have selected fromflowminderand/orworldpop, similar uses from other sourcesfound within our curated databases, aswell as other supplemental sources that serve to compare your methods within the context oftheir more recent state-of-the-art, geospatial application. Consider notes taken during ourcolloquium or revisit your classmates’ abstracts on slack. Consult the bibliography withinsources from the curated database in order to identify seminal contributing references.Identify each methods original author\(s\) and describe how the methods have been adaptedand transformed during the lifespan of their use.
2. Describe and analyze how your geospatial data science methods contribute to an improvedunderstanding of your human development process as presently understood. Describe andanalyze remotely sensed and/or field collected datasets, including constituent variables,used with your selected methods. Identify the most significant findings and results fromexisting applications. Be sure to use formulas, tables, charts, graphs and maps as needed.
3. Critically analyze this revised and extended literature review on the use of your selectedstate-of-the-art geospatial data science methods. Identify limitations presented by the dataand methods, including how they fail to describe, analyze or predict some essential elementof your selected human development process. Identify an existing gap in the literature thatis not currently addressed by any known method. This revised and extended analysis shouldprovethat you have identified a gap in the literature that is worthy of further research.
4. Use this research gap as the basis to formally articulate a specific central research question.This is the research question you will seek to answer through the implementation of yourproposal.

### Step 3. Write a Research Proposal\(1500 words minimum\)

Write a research proposal that you plan to implement in order to answer your central researchquestion.

1. Introduce your research idea and provide context for the starting point. Describe the openquestion you have identified as well as its relevance to the existing body of literature. Includeperspective regarding the potential benefit from successful implementation of your researchplan.
2. Propose your solution or concept that will serve to advance answering your central researchquestion. Describe your approach including necessary tasks that need executed in order toinvestigate the research problem. Postulate a novel hypothesis.
3. Describe the objective of your inquiry. Identify major gains, obstacles or bottlenecks youanticipate. What suggestions for subsequent research could arise from the potential out-comes of the study? What will the results mean to practitioners in the natural settings ofDATA 150 / COLL 150Page 2Tyler Frazier HUMAN DEVELOPMENT&DATA SCIENCEtheir workplace? In what way would individuals or groups potentially benefit? How will theresults of the study be implemented and what innovations could emerge?24. Argue why the jury / foundation should definitively consider your research plan when com-pared with the 47 other plans submitted as part of this call \(i.e. assignment\). Make yourbest argument in favor of funding for your proposal. You are welcome to compare yourplan to other methods that were identified during the colloquium as forthcoming competingproposals. Always be respectful when comparing and criticizing competing work; do not usenames or identify any classmate in your proposal. Focus only on comparing the pros andcons of methods within the context of your similarly seated process oriented application.5. Which objections do you expect in response to your plan? Provide arguments againstthose possible concerns. Also include justification for your selected research design whencompared to other options.6. Provide a brief budget that enumerates a 1 year exploratory phase that would serve asthe basis for implementing your research. Consider all data costs as nominal. Considerany costs associated with time on-site, travel, accommodations or food in favorable terms.Consider that all potential partner institutions \(or businesses\) are generally receptive towardscontributions that will serve to fulfill plan goals and objectives within reasonable limits.Consider that all costs incurred throughout your exploratory phase will need to be accountedfor with receipts. Consider that you are bound to all laws of the country where the donorinstitution is located \(the United States\) as well as the William & Mary Honor Code.7. Keep in mind that your plan should focus on a methodological solution to your proposedcentral research question. This will likely involve a step forward with some aspect of theexisting methodology and/or access to data needed for use in that newly conceptualizedmethod. You may consider a $100,000 budget as the limit for your 1 year exploratory phase.Step 4. Add a Cover Letter\(1 page, not included in word count\)Write a cover letter for your research proposal. Bind the three documents as a single pdf, andprecede it with your signed cover letter.1. Summarize the three documents in your cover letter. Provide a coherent, clear and com-pelling argument as to why your research proposal should receive the highest rank of all 48applications.2. Include the specific purpose of the study and the research question it attempts to answer.Also include a sense of how your study fits within the broader scholarship of the researchproblem.3. Demonstrate enthusiasm for conducting your research proposal.4. Identify an appropriate funding institution. Address your cover letter to that institution.5. Sign your cover letter.2[https://libguides.usc.edu/writingguide/researchproposal](https://libguides.usc.edu/writingguide/researchproposal)

